note to agent: after completing one of these, remove it from this file

NON-GAMEPLAY TODO:

compare flow field pathfinding to our current pathfinding. determine which is better and more efficient. here is a description i was given: Flow Fields: When an NPC wakes up and wants to path to a player or point of interest, we do not calculate a path for that NPC. We calculate a Flow Field for the target.
A Flow Field calculates the distance from the target to every tile in a localized chunk area.
The resulting flow directions are stored in a Uint8Array.
All 100 NPCs in that chunk moving toward the target simply look at their current tile in the Flow Field and move in the indicated direction. Cost: 1 pathfind for 100 NPCs.

we should consider "rendering layers", something like this: Rendering Layers (bottom to top)
Ground layer – static tiles from chunk data (pixi-tilemap).
Water/anim tiles – animated via shader uniforms or sprite sheet cycling (per‑chunk tinting).
Entities – sprites batched with PIXI.ParticleContainer where appropriate, else standard Container for complex NPCs.
Projectiles/FX – short‑lived sprites, pooled.
UI overlay – HTML/CSS menu/inventory, minimap rendered to a separate small canvas.

for persistence, it seems we use sqlite, i do not know if we have any other form of persistence, but in regards to sqlite we should batch things shouldn't we? like, batch 60 seconds worth of stuff then save it? that way the server is never more than 60 seconds behind even if it crashes? or is that not how it works? honestly i do not know how databases or persistence works, i just heard of batching and thought maybe it has relevance for the game, tell me if so

alert message ui system. it is like desktop alerts or browser alerts sort of where a little rectangle appears in the bottom right with a message then fades away after 5 seconds

add player character persistence server side. and client settings persistence (like if they change anything in the settings ui) which i guess persists client side. work on persistence in general since this is a persistent world game. presumably a player's skills they created persist outside their character because in actuality skills are teachable to other players so it is not like the skill is completely unique to the person who created it thus it is not part of their character persisting but persists as its own thing somewhere that anyone can have, and of course each player having the skill does not mean it is duplicated it means they just have access to it but it is the same skill definition for everyone. make sure all persistence is handled in like a persistence system or something sensible like that, not different persistence systems for different things. we will not have traditional player accounts, instead it will be far easier and more streamlined to save and load your character, a lot of people leave a game if it requires them to make an account, this is a browser game so that aspect is even worse, what we will have is a like, hash, or something, that represents your character and you can use it to load that specific character, you can also use it to load someone else's character if you have their hash, i guess its like a private key in crypto in a way, anyone who has it can load the character, we will persist the last character key you used clientside so you don't have to enter it every time. we will use it in a url fragment which automatically lets the game know to load the character associated. a player can't load the character if someone is already using it in game. characters are per server. since the link to the game has a url fragment with the character key in it after they create a character, we should tell them to bookmark it, that way they can return to that character from a bookmark, that way even if their browser persistance fails they still have it bookmarked and won't just forget what the character key was. in this game, when a player joins the game without a character key they have a default character created for them and put in the world, a character key is created and becomes a url fragment and they get an alert telling them to bookmark that character. yes we have alerts in this game they are little ui things that appear in the bottom right with a message then fade away like 5 seconds later. we dont have a character creator in this game instead we give them a default one.

make ability creator stats/attributes/etc actually do something, right now all projectile attacks are the same and all melee attacks are the same for example

give the game client and consistent style that all ui uses and fix other game client presentation issues to make the game more presentable and visually appealing, such as styling the scroll bars and stylized tooltips instead of default looking tooltips.

since windows had inaccurate timers but linux has very accurate timers, investigate whether we should make our main loop on the server handle timing for windows and linux separately, using a rather more straightforward simpler loop for linux since it will definitely have accurate timing, but in windows since it will fluctuate with such a simple loop we need a slightly trickier loop that will keep things accurate on windows because if the loop delta time fluctuates it makes it seem like there is something wrong with the game when i am testing it in the browser on windows because instead of a nice stable 33.333ms for example it might be 25-40 and it makes the game seem choppy so i can't tell for sure if there's an actual netcode problem making it choppy or if it is just windows having bad timing. the tick deltas need to be damn near perfect. on linux that's easy on windows not so much.

sanity check the various types of nengi entities that currently exist because i get the feeling some exist that shouldn't, and it is possible we would go a different route anyway where instead of an entity for tons of different things we get more generic with it and create a "visuals entity" which just tells the client what should appear on the screen and where, it could potentially be called VisualsEntity and have fields for x, y, size or scale or whatever, and appearance related fields like what sprite to display, of course it would send that not as a string like 'sprite.png' but an id from like a map or something idk. color, alpha, flipped (whether to flip the sprite horizontally or not because this is one of those games that have non-animated sprites where you only ever see the front, so if you walk left it flips and if you walk right it doesn't display flipped), and basically whatever other generalized renderable data the client actually needs to display that nengi entity, but i don't at this time see why we need like "door entity" and "projectile entity" and "character entity" and such. this is one of those games where "anything can be anything" anyway like dwarf fortress or caves of qud, so how are we supposed to have that if a door object has a door entity but then you change the door to be essentially not a door anymore and now it is still stuck with a door entity instead of an entity that can convey any sort of appearance? and as for anything that needs synced that a visuals entity can't convey, we do need to brainstorm a solution for that, we can't just float the visuals entity with non-appearance related fields. whether this means that almost every game object has a visuals entity then for anything that can't be synced using it they have to have a specialized second entity i have no idea, that doesn't immediately sound correct to me, nengi has other ways to sync things but those don't seem quite right either. perhaps we maintain they have one entity, but we have other specialized entities with additional fields that inherit from visuals entity but add the needed additional fields? idk, then i guess if we do that we will need the ability for an object's entity to be replaced with a different entity at runtime whenever a change demands it? as far as nengi is concerned it's a literal different entity, we got rid of the first one and made a second one and assigned it to the underlying game object. idk, confusing.

npcs, which are just characters, need to be very compatible with players, who are also just characters, the only difference is the mind driving the character, and what i mean by this is npcs use the exact same abilities created by the ability creator that players can use, it is not as if npcs have their own separate attacks, it is all compatible.

brainstorm more behaviors for npcs other than just being hostile. examples: wander. flee (scared of players). yea idk what else. make wandering ones yellow. flee is green. hostile red. they are 3 separate kinds of npcs they represent different species of npc, same concept as a rabbit a deer and a bear you could say except we are just having them be very generic and not named right now, just differently colored but technically we are thinking of them as different species which prepares us for the real game where we actually will have different species of npcs

item creator. very similar to ability creator. there's even a ui for creating items that uses similar concepts to the ability creator like the type, tier, stats, attributes (upsides and downsides) and so forth. likewise the same item isn't a full duplicate but instead references a data driven thing somewhere that they all share, idk

look into using nw.js to get a desktop client for the game that can eventually be put on steam. i considered electron and those other solutions but from my small glance it seems nw.js may be the best fit here, let me know if you see problems with that choice

in the browser, the appearance of the game is not the right size as far as the tilemap, the tiles visually seem too large, this is render size i guess, not sure if zooming out is the answer or changing the actual render size or what but i presume zooming out is not the answer. i can't see enough tiles away from my character, yet at the same time the character and tiles are both 128x128 if i am not mistaken so yes the character should be the same size as one tile that's true. ultimately i just need to be able to see more tiles on my screen which gives the identical results of zooming out even though i don't think actually zooming out is the solution although we will use zooming in and out for other purposes later on but not this

we need the ability for pickups on the map, this means items, bags of money, etc, a generalized system, i am pretty sure the pickup object itself is actually a different than whatever we are actually picking up from it, more of just a graphical representation on the map and once you pick it up you get whatever it represents, since items for example are made using the item creator even if they're preset items that a player didn't create that are built into the game, and they need to be able to be dropped on the map or the pickup is on the map via any other way for example just random drops or you kill an npc and it drops the pickup etc, players can also drop things from their inventory. you simply get near the pickup and press E to get it. server has authority.

hotbar system. use items and abilities from it. lmb and rmb are on the hotbar not just 0-9. order is: lmb, rmb, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 0. must have the ability to limit the hotbar for certain players who have not yet earned the capacity for the full 0-9 (lmb and rmb are always available) so a fully limited player only has lmb and rmb on their hotbar but they can unlock new slots from lmb, rmb, 1, all the way to the full 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,0. i may also in the future make this capped for certain playable races based on their intelligent like a goblin might have lmb,rmb,1,2 but a human has all the way to 6 and an elf has the full hotbar. those are just examples.

inventory system. has a ui for it in the main menu. can drop items, use items, place them on hotbar, etc. items are put on hotbar by dragging. every item has a description which can be viewed in a tooltip by hovering the mouse over it. inventory persistence.

ability ui. make sure it has the ability to drag abilities onto the hotbar.

i mentioned earlier that via a robotics workbench players can create robot bodies which they can then customize and drive it by an also customized npc mind they made or transfer their own mind into it and play as the robot. there's also a genetics workbench you can create mutants and such to do the same thing with. my point is i also want a drones system where you can turn these robots and mutants into drones that obey you, you have a device item that is set to a certain frequency and you have created those robots/mutants to obey that frequency so that you can issue commands to them from anywhere, not just commands but also shared state, like which factions/races they should be hostile toward. for mutants you have to insert a brain chip into them to have them obey the frequency you set, but for robots it's just a rule you can give them. the drone system mainly means extensively controlling the behavior of your created npc army via issuing mass commands and a hivemind of shared rules. you could then theoretically conquer the entire multiplayer universe if you create a robot/mutant army big enough that has a presence on all maps and is hostile to any player or guild or race you declare an enemy of your empire.

GAMEPLAY FEATURES TODO:

player created guilds. they can invite other players. there is a heirarchy and grantable roles and permissions given and purposes given. can potentially have multiple roles. roles contain permissions and possibly stated purposes. the person who created the guild can create new roles or get rid of roles and create roles with the ability to create roles. guide management ui is a section in the main menu. you can belong to multiple guilds. you will see the guilds you belong to in the guilds section of the main menu and you can click it to manage it if you are indeed a manager, i guess every role in the guild can do some level of management, even if it is just leaving the guild which can be some people's only permission if that is how the guild is set up. the owner can pass their role to anyone else in the guild if they don't want to be owner anymore. guilds must have persistence. we need player character persistence first. one thing i'm confused about is if npc factions and player guilds should be the same thing, where npcs are only hostile to certain factions for example, does that mean the npcs have a guild? should it be the same system or not?

living world. things to make the game world feel alive. weather system. seasons. day night. animals that naturally inhabit the world and are largely peaceful. npcs have needs and desires and goals

player building system using tiles and placing decorative objects. you build by entering a special building mode which is different than gameplay mode or ui mode as it changes the controls, now you can select what tiles or decorative objects to place and use your mouse to place them, your character will navigate to that tile on its own and what you wanted to be placed there will be, without you having to tediously move your character to every single tile yourself and mode switch back to selecting what object or tile to put there. as for how we select what tile or object we want placed there, i have no idea, we need to brainstorm on that, like whether it is ui based or not, and if it is a ui what kind is best. we must have the concept of doors, which are tile sized, you can place them where you want and optionally password protect them, if they aren't password protected anyone can enter the door, it opens automatically when they touch it and they have 5 seconds to enter before it closes again. if it is password protected you can click the door to enter the password and it opens for 5 seconds then closes.

this game does not have quests, but it does have a tutorial that is similar to a quest or multiple quests but the quests are the teach you how to play the game, they ask you to do certain things and when you do you complete the quest for it because it is a tutorial but the tutorial happens in the actual game rather than some separate tutorial mode, you can opt out of these tutorial quests, the quests will teach you how the game works, like if you can be a scientist in this game, the player may not know that is even a thing they can do, that's why the quest will tell them, it's like a discovery system for what content the game has to offer for you, so a quest like "become a scientist" will tell you to gather 3 specific resources then go to a science bench for example and do a certain thing with those materials to create something, and now you completed the quest and know how science works. these are just examples.

raw resources and materials used to create items (or other objects, such as workbenches, which aren't items because they exist solely on the map), and some raw resources and materials can be refined into higher quality versions, for example you can not generally make an iron sword out of iron ore but you can from iron ingots, but iron ore may still have usefulness for things other than an iron sword.

vehicles and other transports where the player is carried along with it. this includes ships that can only move on water. cars which only move on land and if driven into water sink and are gone forever. airships, which while this is a 2d topdown game, can only be damaged by projectile attacks which we will imagine are going up into the sky and hitting them, but melee attacks can not hit them because those are from the ground level. spaceships, which can function as airships on landbased maps but in space maps as well, and can be quite big like motherships where multiple players can be inside them walking around freely while the space ship is moving through space to its destination, all the while every player and all the cargo (items, workbenches, whatever else) that was placed inside the mothership will all be carried along wherever it goes. i'm assuming the mothership can't be allowed to rotate since this is a tilemap based game but i'm really not sure how that works. it can just translate not rotate i assume. everything within the mothership makes the same translation. the mothership is quite large, maybe 10x10 tiles, for testing purposes right now it will be a perfect square. it will have one door to enter from. importantly, the mothership can not pass through walls, this should be easy enough when our test mothership is perfectly 10x10 which can be represented by one rectangular body, but we will have more irregularly shaped motherships later and i really have no idea how we can solve for that not being able to pass through dense tiles and such. we also have to solve for the mothership not being able to pickup and carry along random items just because it travels over top of them and at some point that means the item or object would be considered inside the mothership and if we don't solve for that then the items/objects will be carried along with it as if they are now inside the mothership, this is the same for players it passes over too. generally it passes over almost every type of object except dense tiles. so it will pass over players and items on the ground and rocks and trees and such, without picking them up and carrying them along.

make the real procedural maps system that makes up to 1000x1000 maps and has biomes, cities, variety of npcs, and whatever else goes along with real procedural maps for a real game. trees and rocks and such are destroyable for resource harvesting purposes.

status effects (like stun, poison, bleeding, broken bones (or whatever robots would have, broken parts, including robotic arms etc), acquired diseases, etc)

npcs need to be flexible enough that not only can they act as typical npcs that have behaviors such as wandering, hostile, fleeing, etc, but also the capability to tame them and make them into pets which obey you and help you. also you can create npcs using science, for example robotics, you can create robot npcs, you can them give them commands and desires and such like to be hostile toward certain factions (guilds, races, etc) only. it is planned to be quite an advanced flexible system at some point, where you can tame npcs and especially advanced is creating npcs which are customizable in way more ways than taming existing npcs. creating a robot character for example in your lab, you can actually transfer your mind from your default biological body into the machine body and now you can play as a robot that you tuned exactly to your preferences.

i already mentioned how abilities and items (and some objects that aren't items) use an ability creator and item creator system that consists primarily of its stats, then attributes you can add (upsides and downsides), and a tier, but i should mention that characters also use the stats and attributes in a similar way, but keep in mind the stats and attributes of items is an entirely different set of item specific stats and attributes whereas for abilities it is a specific set for them and for characters an entirely different character specific set.

procedural disasters. floods, hurricanes, bosses spawning, meteor storms, wildfires that can actually grow and spread covering more distance, etc

meteors/asteroids (same thing) should be moving around in space and they cause damage to things on impact. they come in various sizes, not preset sizes, but if 1x is a default meteor size then meteors then they can be anywhere between 0.3 and 3x, when they collide with something and damage it, the meteor splits randomly into 2-4 chunks which are entirely new meteors and fly off in random directions, they are smaller than the original meteor, for example if the original meteor was 3x and it split into 2 chunks each one will be 1.5x, if it splits into 4 they'll be 0.75x each, and if the meteors that split off from it hit something again, they'll split, and so forth, but if they are already below the minimum meteor size of 0.3x they will not split anymore they'll just cease to be.

via the genetics bench you can also give your existing character mutations, you create mutations. via the robotics bench you can give your existing character robotic parts, whether you are biological or already a robot, if you are already a robot that means replacing your existing robotic parts of adding more parts that don't require replacing an existing part (such as arms, which you must replace your old arms with new arms)

npcs that are capable of reproducing naturally, a good example is animals and wildlife, they could get out of control in certain cases in certain environments etc. some more bizarre creatures can reproduce asexually like mutants and giant demon worms.

diseases, which are presumably a status effect. these can be viruses, bacterias, curses, etc, who knows. some are contagious and came transmit to others, some by being airborne, some in other ways. players can also create viruses using science, not sure what workbench that would be through though, but there are some naturally existing ones too, and as for curses there are supernatural beings which can create those, such as Warp Gods like out of Warhammer 40K even though we aren't doing that that's an example. players who get powerful enough to choose to become supernatural beings themselves can also create these curses, they can curse certain locations or other mechanisms that will make players who go there and meet the criteria to acquire the curse the powerful supernatural god being player put there.

an economy of sorts. gold exists as the natural currency, but guilds can also create their own currencies, they can even force people to use their currency and make gold illegal but that's another story, they will have various ways to enforce this in the game world if their guild gets powerful enough. there are renewable resources like trees and such, players can even grow trees if they destroy all the natural ones, from seeds they harvested. these renewable resources are typically destroyed by using them to create something that required the resource. then there are limited resources, the game has these when the server boots up a new world, and once they're gone they're gone, these usually include incredibly rare and powerful things, like cosmic artifacts, an example would be infinity stones if this were marvel but it's not, there's a limited amount of them and always will be. some non-renewable resources are not epic and cosmic but regardless there's a limited amount, not sure what an example of that would be. gold is limited and is the default currency of nature. gold exists in deposits, largely underground but with clues on the surface, it is part of the procedurally generated world, by underground, i mean as pure data, since of course this is a 2d topdown tilemap and there is no real underground, instead i guess gold is known to exist in that general area and can be mined there from under the ground, but there's clues on the surface such as gold pickups being there right on the surface, gold being on the surface as a pickup indicates a much larger gold deposit in the same area underground and players can create mining machines to do massive gold mining operations

there is a space map, 1000x1000, every tile there is stars, not dense. there are meteors flying around in it and it is a hub to visit all planets, as there are round planets floating in space and if you touch one you go to that planet, each regular non-space map is represented by a planet on the space map, you can thus get to all planet maps by going to space and colliding with the planet you intend to visit the map of. actually it is possible the space/stars background thing is not done via tilemap and is actually rendered on the client in another better way that looks better and more appealing and more like real space than a tilemap of star tiles ever could.

like Warhammer 40K we have a thing similar to The Warp but we call it the Chaos Void and it is different somewhat. it is a supernatural and psychic dimension that has started to bleed into our material dimension, complete with it's own chaos gods and curses and other such things bleeding into our reality, and monsters and demons and evil spirits and such. players can visit the chaos void it's just hard to get to and you will lose your sanity from the psychic forces and you will also mutate and such and lose your humanity eventually becoming another chaos demon possibly with urges you must satisfy from the psychic forces imposing them upon you, such as eating humans one per hour at least or suffer

a world log, of all planets and realms, where we log certain important events, things players did, like beating a chaos void boss or something, stopping a chaos incursion. or they accidentally caused a nuclear apocalypse on a certain planet using bombs, or other things of note that occurred that affected the entire world or universe, and since in this game you can eventually do things that can end worlds, including every world, including ending the universe, causing god to reset it with new worlds in a new universe just so existence can continue, when the world ends we can use this log to have AI summarize what happened in the previous universe into an epic yet short tale, and we can make things that happened in that old universe be the history of the new universe (it may not literally be a new universe, instead if all life was extinguished we will do a timeskip of 10,000 years lets say, and we will claim that was long enough for life and the planets to recover naturally) and this history can influence what is currently there, for example in Warhammer 40K there are ancient robot necron hives buried under the surface of random planets because that's where they were before the fall of the previous universe if you want to call it that, these are now ancient relices of 10,000+ years ago by our logic in the timeskipped renewed universe. we can use the previous universe's lore to influence real tangible aspects of the recovered universe's game world. when a timeskip of 10,000+ years occurs, all players will of course die, but they'll play characters with identical builds but reset back to level 1 or whatever having to progress again, perhaps we will claim they're their ancestors descendents or reincarnations. if some players achieved immortality inside the chaos void and became chaos gods for example they may still exist as chaos gods in the timeskip universe and could potentially wreak havoc.

guns are an item. you can create types of guns. they use bullets/projectiles made separately as an item (unless it shoots energy in which case is not a physical item, the gun just does it). there should be some basic bullet types. you can make your gun support all types. regular rounds, they just hit things and damage them then return to a pool i guess. explosive rounds, aoe if it impacts anything. piercing rounds, goes through the target and can thus hit other targets. etc. stun rounds. rounds with other status effects.

insanity. but not just some sanity meter. insanity generally means you have lost control of yourself and are doing something you wouldn't willingly do. there are psychic forces here from chaos void breaches, they can affect you in a contaminated area. you will go insane in multiple ways, the most straightforward way being the psychic forces making you lose control of your character and watch as your character attempts to attack anyone nearby. there are other forms of psychic forces from the chaos void induced insanity as well.

grimdark aspect: not becoming contaminated. this universe is full of contaminations. viruses. chaos void curses. mutations. forced robotization and loss of soul. near permanent disfigurement like loss of limbs. it's a survival game and it always eventually gets you, it's how long you can avoid it that matters. players aren't even your worst enemy, the environment is so much more hostile than they could ever be, which makes everyone want to team up to survive instead.

include this quote when you first load up the game, as a purely black screen where this white text fades in in the center of the screen then fades out 7 seconds later: "perhaps the human agenda seems so anti-human because... humans didnt come up with it"